2018-Ministry of Health and Community Protection, MOHAP Fluoroquinolone Pharmacovigilance License, with administrativedeign No. (16) of 2018.
Subjected warnings for Fluoroquinolone: 

We draw atttention to address by this license received from US food and drug administration warn the group of this
antibiotics as administrated cause complications of mental heath and low blood sugar.Prescribing this medication increases risk of tendonitis and rupture, peripheral neuropathy which is irreversible damage, who used drugs orally and injection. The risk of tendonitis, heart increases over age sixty including kidney and lung transplant recipients. The scientific names of this group of drugs registered in UAE (ciprofloxacin, levofloxacin, moxifloxacin, ofloxacin, norfoxacin and pefloxacin. We recommend that healthcare professionals exercise caution when prescribing antibiotics groups, warn patients to discontinue treatment immediately and consult a physician for alternative treatment.This warning does not include fluoroquinolones use for eye and ear drops. For more information about warnings, 
please visit website: https://www.fda.gov/news-events/press-announcements/fda-updates-warnings-fluoroquinolone-antibiotics-risks-mental-health-and-low-blood-sugar-adverse.
FDA-approved fluoroquinolones include levofloxacin (Levaquin), ciprofloxacin (Cipro), ciprofloxacin extended-release tablets, moxifloxacin (Avelox), ofloxacin, gemifloxacin (Factive) and delafloxacin (Baxdela). There are more than 60 generic versions. The safety labeling changes the FDA is requiring today were based on a comprehensive review of the FDA’s adverse event reports and case reports published in medical literature.
Across the fluoroquinolone antibiotic class, a range of mental health side effects are already described in the Warnings and Precautions section of the drug labeling, but differed by individual drug. The new class-wide labeling changes will require that the mental health side effects be listed separately from other central nervous system side effects and be consistent across the labeling of the fluoroquinolone class. The mental health side effects to be included in the labeling across all the fluoroquinolones are disturbances in attention, disorientation, agitation, nervousness, memory impairment and delirium.  
In case of any side effects, please fill out adverse drug reactions side effects form available on ministry's website UAE:https://mohap.gov.ae/ar/w/evaluation-of-pharmacovigilance-plan-for-medical-products-within-uae. 

2020-moxifloxacin leaflet information for the patients Xflox 400mg film-coated tablets
What Xflox is and what it is used for
Xflox contains the active substance moxifloxacin, which belongs to a group of antibiotics called
fluoroquinolones. Xflox works by killing bacteria that cause infections.
Xflox is used in patients aged 18 years and above for treating the following bacterial infections
when caused by bacteria against which moxifloxacin is active. Xflox should only be used to
treat these infections when usual antibiotics cannot be used or have not worked:
Infection of the sinuses, sudden worsening of long term inflammation of the airways or infection
of the lungs (pneumonia) acquired outside the hospital (except severe cases).
Mild to moderate infections of the female upper genital tract (pelvic inflammatory disease),
including infections of the fallopian tubes and infections of the uterus mucous membrane.
Xflox tablets are not sufficient on their own for treating this kind of infection. Therefore, another
antibiotic in addition to Xflox tablets should be prescribed by your doctor for the treatment of
infections of the female upper genital tract (see section 2. What you need to know before you
take Xflox, Warnings and precautions, Talk to your doctor before taking Xflox).
If the following bacterial infections have shown improvement during initial treatment with
moxifloxacin solution for infusion, Xflox tablets may also be prescribed by your doctor to
complete the course of therapy: Infection of the lungs (pneumonia) acquired outside the hospital,
infections of the skin and soft tissue.
Xflox tablets should not be used to initiate therapy for any type of infections of the skin and soft
tissue or in severe infections of the lungs.
2. What you need to know before you take Xflox
Do not take Xflox
If you are allergic to the active substance moxifloxacin, any other quinolone antibiotics or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in section 6.).
If you are pregnant or are breast-feeding.
If you are under 18 years of age.
If you have previously had problems with your tendons related to treatment with quinolone
antibiotics (see section Warnings and Precautions and section 4. Possible side effects).
If you were born with or have any condition with abnormal heart rhythm (seen on ECG, electrical recording of the heart)
A salt imbalance in the blood (especially low levels of potassium or magnesium in the blood)
A very slow heart rhythm (called ‘bradycardia’)
A weak heart (heart failure)
A history of abnormal heart rhythms or if you are taking other medicines that result in abnormal ECG changes (see section Other medicines and Xflox). This is because moxifloxacin can cause changes on the ECG, that is a prolongation of the QT-interval, i.e., delayed conduction of electrical signals.
If you have a severe liver disease or increased liver enzymes (transaminases) higher than 5 times
the upper normal limit.
Warnings and precautions
Before taking this medicine
You should not take fluoroquinolone/quinolone antibacterial medicines, including moxifloxacin,if you have experienced any serious adverse reaction in the past when taking a quinolone or fluoroquinolone. In this situation, you should inform your doctor as soon as possible.
Talk to your doctor before taking Xflox moxifloxacin can change your heart’s ECG, especially if you are female, or if you are elderly.
If you are currently taking any medicine that decreases your blood potassium levels, consult your doctor before taking moxifloxacin (see also sections Do not take Xflox and other medicines and Xflox).
If you have ever developed a severe skin rash or skin peeling, blistering and/or mouth sores after taking moxifloxacin.
If you suffer from epilepsy or a condition which makes you likely to have convulsions talk to your doctor before taking moxifloxacin.
If you have or have ever had any mental health problems, consult your doctor before taking moxifloxacin.
If you suffer from myasthenia gravis (abnormal muscle fatigue leading to weakness and in serious cases paralysis), taking moxifloxacin may worsen the symptoms of your disease. If you think you are affected consult your doctor immediately.
If you have been diagnosed with an enlargement or “bulge” of a large blood vessel (aortic aneurysm or large vessel peripheral aneurysm).
If you have experienced a previous episode of aortic dissection (a tear in the aorta wall).
If you have been diagnosed with leaking heart valves (heart valve regurgitation).
If you have a family history of aortic aneurysm or aortic dissection or congenital heart valve disease, or other risk factors or predisposing conditions connective tissue disorders such as marfan syndrome or ehlers-danlos syndrome, turner syndrome, sjögren´s syndrome an inflammatory autoimmune disease, or vascular disorders such as Takayasu arteritis, giant cell arteritis, Behçet´s disease, high blood pressure, or known atherosclerosis, rheumatoid arthritis a
disease of the joints or endocarditis an infection of the heart.
If you are diabetic because you may experience a risk of change in blood sugar levels with moxifloxacin.
When taking Xflox
If you experience palpitations or irregular heart beat during the period of treatment, you should inform your doctor immediately. He/she may wish to perform an ECG to measure your heart rhythm.
The risk of heart problems may increase with increase of the dose. Therefore, the recommended dosage should be followed.
There is a rare chance that you may experience a severe, sudden allergic reaction (an anaphylactic reaction/shock) even with the first dose. Symptoms include tightness in the chest, feeling dizzy, feeling sick or faint, or dizziness when standing up. If so, stop taking Xflox and seek medical advice immediately.
Other medicines and Xflox
Tell your doctor or pharmacist about any other medicines that you are taking, took recently or might take.
For Xflox, be aware of the following:
If you are taking Xflox and other medicines that affect your heart there is an increased risk for altering your heart rhythm. Therefore, do not take moxifloxacin together with the following medicines
medicines that belong to the group of anti-arrhythmics (e.g. quinidine, hydroquinidine, disopyramide, amiodarone, sotalol, dofetilide, ibutilide)
antipsychotics (e.g. phenothiazines, pimozide, sertindole, haloperidol, sultopride)
tricyclic antidepressants
some antimicrobials (e.g. saquinavir, sparfloxacin, intravenous erythromycin, pentamidine, antimalarials particularly halofantrine)
some antihistamines (e.g. terfenadine, astemizole, mizolastine)
other medicines (e.g. cisapride, intravenous vincamine, bepridil and diphemanil).
You must tell your doctor if you are taking other medicines that can lower your blood potassium
levels (e.g. some diuretics, some laxatives and enemas [high doses] or corticosteroids [antiinflammatory drugs], amphotericin B) or cause a slow heart rate because these can also increase the risk of serious heart rhythm disturbances while taking moxifloxacin.
Any medicine containing magnesium or aluminium (such as antacids for indigestion), iron, zinc or didanosine or any medicine containing sucralfate (to treat stomach disorders) can reduce the action of Xflox tablets. Take your Xflox tablet 6 hours before or after taking the
other medicine.
Taking any medicine containing charcoal at the same time as Xflox tablets reduces the action of moxifloxacin. It is recommended that these medicines are not used together.
If you are currently taking drugs to thin your blood oral anti-coagulants such as warfarin, it may be necessary for your doctor to monitor your blood clotting time.
How to take Xflox
Always take this medicine exactly as your doctor or pharmacist has told you. Check with your doctor or pharmacist if you are not sure.
The recommended dose for adults is one 400mg film-coated tablet once daily. Xflox tablets are for oral use. Swallow the tablet whole (to mask the bitter taste) and with plenty of liquid. You can take Xflox with or without food. Try to take the tablet at approximately the
same time each day.
Possible Side Effects
An abnormal fast heart rhythm rare side effect, that you suddenly start feeling unwell or notice yellowing of the whites of the eyes, dark urine,
itching of the skin, a tendency to bleed or disturbances of thought or wakefulness these can be signs and symptoms of fulminant inflammation of the liver potentially leading to life-threating, liver failure, serious skin rashes including Stevens-Johnson syndrome and toxic epidermal necrolysis. These cappear as reddish target-like macules or circular patches often with central blisters on the trunk, skin peeling, ulcers of the mouth, throat, nose, genitals and eyes and can be preceded by fever and flu-like symptoms very rare side effects, potentially life threatening. A red, scaly widespread rash with bumps under the skin and blisters accompanied by fever at the initiation of treatment, acute generalised exanthematous pustulosis, syndrome associated with impaired water excretion and low levels of sodium, loss of consciousness due to severe decrease in blood sugar levels hypoglycaemic coma, inflammation of blood vessels (signs could be red spots on your skin, usually on your lower legs or effects like joint pain a severe, sudden generalised allergic reaction rarely a life-threatening shock difficulty in breathing, drop of blood pressure, fast pulse, swelling of the airway it is potentially life-threatening, convulsions associated with the nervous system such as pain, burning, tingling, numbness, weakness in extremities, depression severe diarrhoea containing blood and mucus associated pseudomembranous colitis), muscle weakness condition called rhabdomylosis, transient loss of vision, on experiencing life-threatening irregular heart beat Torsade de Pointes or stopping of heart beat while taking moxifloxacin, tell your treating doctor immediately that you have taken Xflox and do not restart the treatment.
Other side effects which have been observed during treatment with moxifloxacin are listed
below by how likely they are:change of the heart rhythm (ECG) in patients with low blood potassium level, aches and pains such as back, chest, pelvic and extremities pains, low white blood cells count leukocytes, neutrophils, increase blood clotting, increased specialised white blood cells (eosinophils), anxiety, feeling unwell (predominantly weakness or tiredness), palpitations, irregular heart rhythm abnormality, angina pectoris, high blood pressure, low blood pressure, pancytopenia, increased blood sodium levels, increased blood calcium levels,haemolytic anaemia , Cases of an enlargement and weakening of the aortic wall or tear in the aortic wall (aneurysms and dissections), which may rupture and may be fatal, and of leaking heart valves have been
reported in patients receiving fluoroquinolones.
How to store Xflox
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children.
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date stated on the blister and carton. The expiry date refers to the last day of the month.
Do not store above 30°C.
Store in the original package in order to protect from moisture.
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist
how to throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment.
What Xflox contains
The active substance is moxifloxacin. Each film-coated tablet contains the equivalent of 400mg of moxifloxacin in the hydrochloride form.
The other ingredients are: Tablet core: microcrystalline cellulose, croscarmellose sodium, povidone, corn starch, colloidal anhydrous silica, magnesium stearate and hydrogenated castor oil. Film coating: hypromellose, macrogol 400, iron oxide (E172) and titanium dioxide (E171).
What Xflox looks like and contents of the pack
Xflox 400 mg is supplied as pink, oblong, unscored and engraved with code “MXF” film-coated tablets.
Xflox tablets are packaged in blister-packs of 5 tablets (5’s blister x 1) or 7 tablets (7’s blister x1).
Marketing Authorisation Holder and manufacturer:LABORATORIOS CINFA, SA Olaz-Chipi, 10 - Polígono Industrial Areta 31620 Huarte-Pamplona, (Navarra) Spain
This leaflet was last revised in October 2020, Council of Arab Health Ministers Union of Arab Pharmacists

In 2022 FarmacoInc UAE Generic Levofloxacin Page
Levofloxacin indication: Chronic bronchitis, Acute bacterial sinusitis,endocarditis, acute myocardial infarction, ventricular arrhythmia, QT prolongation respiratory effects, electrolyte imbalance, structural heart disease, risk of heart valve regurgitation, life threatning arrhythmia.Grepafloxacin indication: dose-related transient arrhythmias, congestive heart failure, bradycardia in females, Moxifloxacin is QTc prolongation occurs due to blockade of cardiac delayed rectifier potassium channels. This leads to prolongation of the action potential, hypokalaemia and hypomagnesaemia and absolute risk of torsades de pointes. 
Ciprofloxacin renal dose: Renal impairment: Haemodialysis/CAPD: Initially, 500 mg daily, then 250 mg every 48 hr. Alternatively: Initially, 750 mg daily, then 500 mg every 48 hr.CrCl (ml/min) 20-49 Initially, 500 mg daily, then 250 mg every 24 hr. Alternatively: Initially, 750 mg daily, then 750 mg every 48 hr, 10-19 Initially, 500 mg daily, then 250 mg every 48 hr. Alternatively: Initially, 750 mg daily, then 500 mg every 48 hr. Interaction of ciprofloxacin: Additive effects on QT interval prolongation w/ class IA (e.g. quinidine, procainamide) or class III (amiodarone, sotalol) antiarrhythmics, fluoxetine or imipramine. Reduced absorption w/ sucralfate, didanosine, antacids containing Mg or Al, dietary supplements containing zinc, calcium,magnesium or iron. Altered glucose levels w/ antidiabetic agents (e.g. insulin, glibenclamide). Increased risk of severe tendon disorders w/ corticosteroids. Increased risk of CNS stimulation and seizures w/ NSAIDs. Increased prothrombin time w/ warfarin.Side effects: Cardiac: Cardiac arrest, palpitation, ventricular tachycardia, syncope, mmune hypersensitivity reaction,thrombocytopenia,  granulocytopenia.
Levofloxacin brands in United Arab Emirates: Tablets/Film coated levofloxacin: Advaquin 500mg Oman Pharmaceutical Products, Evoxil 500mg Pharmathen S.A., (Tablet and infusion), Hetlox 250mg - 500mg Nexgen Pharma FZ LLC,Leflocad 250mg - 500mg Jubilant life sciences limited, leford infusion 100 ml/500mg Labatec-Pharma S.A.,leflox 500mg medpharma pharma. and chem inds, levanix 500mg neopharma, levex 500mg lagap SA, levaquin 500mg saudi arabian japanese pharmaceutical co. ltd, levocrat 500mg abott laboratories S.A, levoflox -denk infusion 500mg/100ml denk pharma GmbH & co.kG,matador infusion / tablet 5 mg/ml dar al dawa development and investment co. ltd, robur infusion 500mg/100ml gulf inject LLC, velox 500mg - 750mg spimaco al qassim pharmaceutical plant, voxin 500mg julphar gulf pharmaceutical industries, and ziquin 500mg laboratories cinfa S.A.  

Analysis of Adverse Drug Reactions Report Pharmacovigilance Program Research and Innovation Center Department of Health (DOH) in UAE(2023)
This report serves as an annual report on pharmacovigilance adverse drug reports for the year 2023 and provides comprehensive overview of the adverse events associated with pharmaceutical products reported within our pharmacovigilance system during the past year.
Suspected Adverse drug reactions are reported to DOH pharmacovigilance program by healthcare professionals/facilities, ADR’s database is examined and investigated regularly by DOH pharmacovigilance team as part of routine safety monitoring to ensure that medical products used in Abu Dhabi are safe and effective. We recognize the invaluable contributions of healthcare professionals, and other stakeholders in reporting adverse drug events, which are instrumental in enhancing drug safety surveillance and promoting public health.
Together, we remain committed to advancing the science of pharmacovigilance, fostering proactive risk management, and safeguarding the well-being of patients worldwide.
Data collation and analyses:
The data used for analysis was for the period between January and December 2023. It follows the previous report of ADR data analysis for the years 2013-2022. Adverse reactions following immunizations reports are not included in this analysis.Information to be used in this analysis was extracted in Microsoft® Excel files from DOH electronic reporting system from the reports and collated on patient's demographic information such as
age, gender, hospitalization status, outcome of the adverse event, seriousness of the adverse event, profession of the reporter, type of products involved, organ system affected were collated. Adverse drug reaction for marketed drugs in Abu Dhabi in this report were categorized using MedDRA Terminology a single standardized international medical terminology which can be used for regulatory communication and evaluation of data pertaining to medicinal products for human use involving different system-organ classes (SOC) with the relevant “Preferred Term.” 
Number of Reports and Mode of reporting: A total of 1522 adverse drug reaction reports were submitted to the pharmacovigilance program during the period of January - December 2023. This year’s count is 235% higher than the average annual reports received for the past 10 years (645). All reports were received through the Enotification system. Data revealed that the proportion of reports from the private sector was higher than those from public sectors (79%, 21% respectively) this shows an increase in the private sector reporting compared to previous years. 
Adverse drug reactions received by drug classification:
The total number of suspected drugs reported was 1667 drug, (1091 Generic name and 576 other generic names, none from brand name as the generic and other generic names were not ever blank at any of the reports)some ADR reports had more than one suspected drug reported which explains why the number of drugs is more than the number of reports (1667 vs 1522 respectively). Antibacterial (Antibiotics) count is 566 represent the highest therapeutic category associated
with ADR incidences with percentage of 34%, this is consistent with the previous year’s results which showed that antibiotics were the highest therapeutic category of drugs associated with ADR events. It is followed by therapeutic Nutrients/Minerals/Electrolytes count is 293 and percentage is 17.6%, followed by Anti-inflammatory Agents count is 225, percentage of 13.5% and cardiovascular distribution of reported drug therapeutic of 1.26%
Suspected Drugs in ADR Reports:
Ferric Carboxy maltose was the most reported drug suspected to be associated with an adverse drug reaction by 257 reports resembling for 15.4% of the total reported suspected drugs during 2023. Ceftriaxone comes next with 174 reports (10.4%), followed by Diclofenac Sodium 73 (4.
4%), paracetamol 64 (3.8%)and fluoroquinolone 48 (2.9%)
Adverse drug reactions received by patients’ Gender: There were more ADR reports received for female patients the count was 972 representing 64% while reports for male patients counted 550 representing 36% of total reports received, same findings with close figures were seen in the previous years. 
Drugs prescription risks include 53 hypersenstivity reports, 14 anaphyatics reaction/shock reports, 31 hypotension reports, 3 hypertension reports, 7 hot flushes reports, 47 cardiac disorders reports including 20 palpitation cases, 15 tachycardia cases, 7 bradycardia cases, 2 cardiac arrest case, 2 cyanosis cases, 1 dysnopea case. 33 infused related reaction of general system disorder reports, 27 investigational report disorders, including 5 reduced oxygen saturation cases, 4 reduced blood pressure cases, 4 increased heart rate cases, 1 decreased hemaglobin cases, 1 diabetic ketoacidosis case, 1 suspected quaity issue of antibiotic case.
Outcome and Seriousness of the Adverse Events
In 1337 (87.84%) of the submitted reports, patients had recovered from the adverse drug reaction symptoms. 156 patients (10.25%) were still recovering at the time of report submission. 14 patients (0.92%) Recovered with sequelae while 8 (0.53%) patients had an unknown outcome. Only 7 patients (0.45%) showed no recovery for the adverse drug reactions. Most of the submitted reports were non-serious 1469 (96.5%). Healthcare professionals and providers are required to report all ADRs whether serious or non-serious as per DoH standard aiming to capture all adverse known and unknown drug reactions. The 53 serious adverse reactions reported resembling around 3.5% of the total reports were then included in a further analysis to provide close insights into the type of seriousness. For those 53 reports categories and reports count of seriousness type are shown in the below graph. Those which required “Hospitalization” were the most reported in 20 cases. This was followed by “Required Intervention to prevent permanent harm/impairment/damage” reported in 9 cases,” Life Threatening” were also reported in 9 cases, “Other Seriousness “as well as “Prolonged Hospitalization more than 24 hours” were reported in 7 cases, while just “serious “was reported in 1 case. 
Reporting Facilities:
A Total of 89 different healthcare facilities (including different healthcare facility branches) had reported ADR during the year 2023. The accumulative percentage of reporting facilities to PV program increased during 2023 (97%) compared to previous year (2022 was 93%). Below table reflects the top 15 reporting facilities\Branches. Facility Name Number of Reports
N M C SPECIALTY HOSPITAL LTD 124
NEW MEDICAL CENTRE SPECIALTY HOSPITAL LTD-ABU DHABI In-Patient
Pharmacy
104
TAWAM HOSPITAL 97
MEDEOR 24X7 HOSPITAL IN-PATIENT PHARMACY 75
LLH HOSPITAL PHARMACY- LLC 70
N M C ROYAL HOSPITAL LTD 55
BURJEEL HOSPITAL IN-PATIENT PHARAMCY 53
BURJEEL HOSPITAL PHARMACY L.L.C. 52
AL AHLI HOSPITAL COMPANY INPATIENT PHARMACY LLC 46
AL AHLI HOSPITAL COMPANY LLC - BRANCH 1 INPATIENT PHARMACY 46
KANAD HOSPITAL In-Patient Pharmacy 46
MEDICLINIC PHARMACY - ALNOOR - BRANCH 1 44
NMC ROYAL WOMENS HOSPITAL LTD In-Patient Pharmacy 41
PHOENIX HOSPITAL L.L.C. INPATIENT PHARMACY 38
BURJEEL MEDICAL CITY IN-PATIENT PHARMACY L.L.C 34

MSD (Merck Sharp & Dohme) fluoroquinolone- Infectious Diseases Notes related clinical notes 2024
Fluoroquinolones are divided into 2 groups, based on antimicrobial spectrum and pharmacology:

    Older group: Ciprofloxacin, norfloxacin, and ofloxacin

    Newer group: Delafloxacin, gemifloxacin, levofloxacin, and moxifloxacin
Many newer fluoroquinolones have been withdrawn from the United States market because of toxicity when given systemically; they include trovafloxacin (because of severe hepatic toxicity), gatifloxacin (because of hypoglycemia and hyperglycemia; it is still available in the United States as an ophthalmic preparation), grepafloxacin (because of cardiac toxicity), temafloxacin (because of acute renal failure, hepatotoxicity, hemolytic anemia, coagulopathy, and hypoglycemia), and lomefloxacin, sparfloxacin, and enoxacin.
Contraindications include Previous allergic reaction to the medications, certain disorders that predispose to arrhythmias (eg, QT-interval prolongation, uncorrected hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia, significant bradycardia), use of medications known to prolong the QT interval or to cause bradycardia (eg, metoclopramide, cisapride, erythromycin, clarithromycin, classes Ia and III antiarrhythmics, tricyclic antidepressants). Delafloxacin does not appear to cause significant prolongation of the QT interval. 
Adverse Effects of Fluoroquinolones 
Fluoroquinolones have boxed warnings because they have been associated with disabling and potentially irreversible serious adverse reactions that have occurred together including: Hypoglycemia can occur, especially when a fluoroquinolone is combined with antihyperglycemic medications, QT-interval prolongation can occur, potentially leading to ventricular arrhythmias and sudden cardiac death, aortic aneurysm and dissection can occur, with a potentially increased risk in patients who have risk factors for aortic aneurysm (eg, Marfan syndrome) or who have a known aortic aneurysm.Hypersensitivity reactions (including anaphylactic reactions) may occur after the first dose or subsequent doses. Fluoroquinolone use should be stopped at the first sign of rash, jaundice, sign of hypersensitivity and Photosensitivity can occur, resulting in exaggerated sunburn reactions. Patients taking fluoroquinolones should avoid excessive ultraviolet exposure.
Dosing Considerations for Fluoroquinolones:
Dose reduction, except for moxifloxacin, is required for patients with renal insufficiency. Older fluoroquinolones are normally given twice a day; newer ones and an extended-release form of ciprofloxacin are given once a day.
Ciprofloxacin raises theophylline levels, sometimes resulting in theophylline-related adverse effects.

Sentiment Analysis on Risk Awareness in Provider Notes (Temporal Coverage) : Spans 2018–2023 to align with your analysis timeframe.
        Classify risk perception as low, medium, or high based on physician comments based on FDA and EMA guidelines.contextual embeddings using models like BioBERT or ClinicalBERT. 

Year	Physician Comment	Risk Perception	Contextual Label
2018	"Patient with no cardiac history, levofloxacin prescribed for uncomplicated UTI."	Low	Justified Use
2018	"Moxifloxacin avoided due to prolonged QT interval in patient with arrhythmia."	High	Risky Use
2019	"Levofloxacin used for pneumonia, patient has stable cardiac condition."	Low	Justified Use
2019	"Moxifloxacin prescribed with ECG monitoring for borderline QT prolongation."	Medium	Risky Use (with caution)
2020	"Patient with history of torsades de pointes, levofloxacin contraindicated."	High	Risky Use
2020	"Moxifloxacin administered for COPD exacerbation, no cardiac risk factors."	Low	Justified Use
2021	"Levofloxacin used in elderly patient with mild QT prolongation, close monitoring."	Medium	Risky Use (with caution)
2021	"Moxifloxacin avoided in patient with heart failure due to high arrhythmia risk."	High	Risky Use
2022	"Levofloxacin prescribed for cellulitis, patient has no cardiac issues."	Low	Justified Use
2022	"Moxifloxacin used with caution in patient on amiodarone, ECG monitoring advised."	Medium	Risky Use (with caution)
2023	"Patient with no QT prolongation, levofloxacin deemed safe for respiratory infection."	Low	Justified Use
2023	"Moxifloxacin contraindicated in patient with congenital long QT syndrome."	High	Risky Use

Justified Use:

    "Patient with no cardiac history, levofloxacin prescribed for uncomplicated UTI."

    "Moxifloxacin administered for COPD exacerbation, no cardiac risk factors."

Risky Use:

    "Moxifloxacin avoided due to prolonged QT interval in patient with arrhythmia."

    "Levofloxacin used in elderly patient with mild QT prolongation, close monitoring."



